# Lecture 2

>The first video was on, Review of MAD1 (SkiPPed)
>The second video is on, History of JavaScript.

## Why History ?

So that we can have a context of why was something developed and all.

Arourd 1995, Java was founded by Sun Microsystems (James Gosling), and Java was designed in a way that i could be \used in order to implement something called applets.

**Applet**  -  A small java program that could be embedded within a web page and can be ran inside a web browser, designed to make websites more dynamic and interactive.

With this applet - now we could write full blown application to control a part of the web browser. This meant all the full blown applications could now be possible to run just on the web browser, and not required to have certain software locally for it to be able to run.

This kind of revolutionaized the entire sphere of web development.

Along with this **Netscape Navigator** then introduced a scripting language, to make full applications in the web page it self, in the web browser it self. This is where **Javascript** got invented.

Javascript was meant to assist the Java Applets, and not really meant for coding. It was intennded to become a **Glue** language, which can stick different modules together, different applets together.

**Power**
Javascript was doing good as a scripting language but it was slow. Therefore people came up with solutions. One of the major solution among them was brought up by Google, with its Google Maps and Google Suggest etc (2005)

**AJAX** - Asynchronous Javascript and XML

Garrett found the solution. Problem was, in google maps, they want to load the things, for only what is needed, nothing else. this was made possible by Async  JS. and again, it made the web applications more desktop like applications.
Also, the UI it became more and more fluid everytime, since the load on the network significantly reduced.

With time JS reached a certain level of popularity which meant it could just be tied down to netscape. Thus the **European Computer Manufacture Association**, developed something a script called standard number 262 and eventually it came to be called , EcmaScript.

There are many versions of it and we would be using mainly ES6 cause it has all the features of a modern programming language, that is modules, scoping, etc.

After several years of upgrades and all the language has become so much sophisticated and all, that it is no longer only written in context of  a browser and frontend interaction.
Now it can be used in the backend as well, and many more implications are there so the language in itself has become really complicated and we need to be careful for assuming to use it only in the context of the browser.

### Implications of JS Origin

1. Ease of use given priority over performance. (to start with)
2. Highly tolerant of Errors
    - this made debugging really difficult
    - after people had spent a lot of time on these issues, finally we have a solution like using the strict mode, which would actually flag the errors atleast at the development phase
3. Ambiguous syntax variant
    - ambiguous use of semicolon
        in general you can actually ignore the semicolons and JS also recommends that, giving no errors but there are parts in JS where the semicolons do make a difference. *Rather just use it every time.*
    - Object literals vs code blocks they both use {}
        This creates issues while parsing. Since both use the same paranthesis, there is no real separation that can be observed between code blocks and object literals.
    - Function - what exactly is a function? Is it a statement or a declaration with a return value, there is no real separation between them.

   > Try to avoid these mistakes as much as possible, there are certain tools called Linters. Linters (ESLint) they go through your code and examine your code and provide you with all the errors that are there. They mainly help to remove and identify all these ambiguous erros. Try using them to minimize these ambiguous errors.
4. Limited IO Support
    - Since you are running this inside a browser, you donot really have a way to communicate with the user directly. All the errors are logged into the Console.

5. Closely Integrates with the presentation layer - DOM Api
   - Javascript inherently have a way by which it can directly interact with the webpage. Through the DOM or the DOM APIs it is very closely integrated with the presentation layer. This is immensley powerful and leads to website development.

6. Asynchornous Processing and the Event Loop
    - real powerful tools. for later

## DOM

- Document Object Model
  - Structure of the document shown on the website.
- DOM can be manipulated using JS APIs
- One of the most powerful aspects of JavaScript
- **INPUT**: Clicks, Hovers, text boxes
- **OUTPUT**: text, colors styles drawings
