# Lecture 3

## Some Common Notations

1. **Comment**
   - '//' Use forward slash for comments and for multi line comments
   - Start with this "/*" and end with  the opposite of it with an asterisk in each line.
2. **Reserved Keywords**
   - let
   - const
   - var
3. **Unicode Characters**
   - JS lets you code with any unicode character you want
   - if i say var emoji = 10, then the value of that emoji would be assign 10 only, no issue with it.
   - Most of the javascript engines use UTF-16. Thus all the characters in UTF-16 can be used for the code.
   - Try to use the most common set of alphabets possible, cause whether you accept it or not, some one is going to read or work on your code at the end of the day. So its better to just go with the convention.
4. **Scope of the Variable**
    - Scope of a variable means where is the variable visible
    - var being es5 doesnot follow scopes, but this issue was solved using let. let being es6 it uses scopes properly and thus anything within a given space wont be registered into the main scope.
    > **Word of advise**: Avoid using var unless there is a specific reason to use it, use const and let in most of the fields.
5. **String Methods**
   > let x = "Hello"
   > console.log(x[0])  //gives output H
   > console.log(x[1])  //gives output e
   > console.log(x.substring(2,4))  //give output ll
   > console.log(x.length) //gives output 5

6. **Coercion**
   - When JS get to do an operation using two variables but for the operation to occur it is required that both the values must be of the same data type, in that case, JS converts the values into the same data type and does the operation, this is conversion is called Coercion.
   - eg -  '3' * '4' = 12 (Js converts both the strings into integer, since multiplication is only available for integers only)
   - *This is a potential source of errors, so be aware.*
7. **Equality and Strict Equality**
   - Equality sign is "=="  and strict equality is "===". It is recommended to always use the strict equality for reason conveyed in the next option
   - Equality -> '3' == 3 -> True (Coercion occurs during the processing time and str is converted to int).
   - Strict Equality -> '3' === 3 -> False. Data is compare as it is, no further processing before comparision. Thus much more safer.
